RUTHLESS LEADER OF A MEXICAN
CARTEL, HAS BEEN CAPTURED NEAR
THE TEXAS BORDER.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE GET
THE DETAILS OF THE DRAMATIC
ARREST BY MEXICAN MARINES, AND
EXAMINE THE IACT MPON THE
NOTORIOUS ZETAS DRUG GANG, WHICH
REACHES DEEP INTO THE AMERICAN
SOUTHWEST.
>> Ifill: THEN, THE "NUCLEAR
OPTION" IS OFF THE TABLE, FOR
NOW.
WE TALK WITH SENATORS JEFF
MERKLEY AND ROGER WICKER ABOUT
THE DEAL THAT AVERTED A SHOWDOWN
OVER THE FILIBUSTER RULES.
>> Brown: RAY SUAREZ UPDATES THE
LATEST TURMOIL IN EGYPT, WHERE
NEW CLASHES BETWEEN ISLAMISTS
AND POLICE LEFT SEVEN DEAD AND
MORE THAN 200 INJURED.
>> Ifill: FRED DE SAM LAZARO HAS
THE STORY OF A SCHOOL THAT'S
TRANSFORMING THE LIVES OF
CHILDREN, WHO COME FROM PARTS OF
INDIA LARGELY CUT OFF FROM THE
WIDER WORLD.
>> THE 18,000 STUDENTS HAVE TWO
THINGS IN COMMON.
THEY COME FROM INDIA'S SO-CALDLE
TRIBAL COMMUNITIES AND THEY'RE
EXTREMELY POOR.
>> Brown: AND WE CLOSE WITH A
CONVERSATION ABOUT RACE, CULTURE
AND IDENTITY IN THE WAKE OF THE
"NOT GUILTY" VERDICT FOR GEORGE
ZIMMERMAN, CHARGED IN THE
KID ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Brown: THE REPUTED LEADER OF
ONE OF MEXICO'S MOST VICIOUS
DRUG GANGS WAS BEHIND BARS
TODAY.
BUT IT WAS UNCLEAR JUST HOW MUCH
THAT WILL DO TO EASE DRUG
VIOLENCE THAT HAS RAGED FOR
YEARS.
>> A MEXICAN NEWSPAPER HEADLINE
THIS MORNING SAID IT ALL:
INTELLIGENCE ACTION DECAPITATES
THE ZETAS.
A MACABRE METHOD.
THE MAN NAMED Z 4 WAS CAPTURED
MONDAY WITHOUT A SHOT BEING
FIRED, IN THE VIOLENCE WRAKD
CITY OF NUEVO LAREDO.
>> DETAINED MIGUEL ANGEL TREVINO
MORALES, 40 YEARS OLD, HE'S
ACCUSED OF ORGANIZED CRIME, HOM
SIZE, CRIMES AGAINST HEALTH,
TORTURE, MONEY LAUNDERING, AND S
USED BY ARMED FORCES.
>> THE ZETAS HAVE EARNED A
SPECIAL REPUTATION.
BEYOND THE WANT AND KILLINGS OF
POLICE, MILITARY, POLITICS AND
CIVILIANS, ZETAS HAVE LEFT A
BLOODY TRAIL OF DEAD BODIES,
OFTEN LEFT WITH PROFANE MESSAGES
TO THEIR RIVALS AND TO THE
MEXICAN PUBLIC.
THE NewsHOUR MARGARET WARREN
ERR INTERVIEWED, ONE WOMAN WOULD
NOT EVEN UTTER THE WORD ZETAS.
>> IF I TELL YOU ON AN
INTERNATIONAL NETWORK T NAHEME
OF THE CRIMINAL ORGANIZATION,
IT'S GOING TO COST MY MAY LIFE.
-- MY LIFE.
>> THE ZETAS WERE FORMED BY
FORMER MEXICAN SPECIAL FORCES AS
THE SECURITY ARM OF ANOTHER
CARTEL.
FROM THERE THEY MUFFLED THEIR
WAY TO THE TOP OF THE RUK RA
TIFF -- LUCRATIVE DRUG ARE
BUSINESS.
NUEVO LEON, HOME TO MEXICO'S
SECOND LARGEST CITY AND ITS
BUSINESS CAPITAL.
MANY MEXICANS CAUTION TODAY
AGAINST EXPECTING IMMEDIATE
IMPROVEMENT.
>> I DON'T THINK IT WILL BE OVER
BY CATCHING ONE.
BECAUSE THEY ARREST ONE AND 20
CROP UP.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THE
GOVERNMENT ALSO KNOWS WHO THEY
ARE AND I IMAGINE KNOW WHERE
THEY ARE.
>> IT'S BELIEVED THAT TREVINO
MORALES OLDER BROTHER WILL
ASSUME THE LEADERSHIP.
HE WILL OVERSEE THE EASTERN DRUG
CORRIDORS INTO THE UNITED
STATES.
THE ONLY RIVAL IS THE SINALOA
CARTEL, THE REST OF TROAFN TRO T
LEAST 60,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED.
WHEN THE NUMBER HAVE DISAPPEARED
AND PRESUMED DEAD IS ADDED THAT
FIGURE IS MORE THAN 100,000.
>> AND FOR MORE
>> Brown: FOR MORE, WE HEAR ONCE
AGAIN FROM ALFREDO CORCHADO,
MEXICO BUREAU CHIEF FOR THE
"DALLAS MORNING NEWS."
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THIS
ARREST, HOW BIG A CONFIGURE IS
HE?
>> THIS IS A HUGE DEAL.
I MEAN, I THINK THE FEW PEOPLE,
I CAN'T THINK OF ANYONE ELSE WHO
DEFINES THE DECADE LIKE MIGUEL
ANGEL TREVINO MORALES.
AS FAR AS THE HEADLINES WE'VE
GOTTEN ACCUSTOMED TO IN THE
UNITED STATES AND IN MEXICO THIS
MAN WAS LARGELY RESPONSIBLE, HE
AND HIS COHORTS, THE ZETAS, A
PARAMILITARY GROUP.
SOME OF THE VIOLENCE IN THE
STATE OF TEXAS.
>> SO NO SHOTS WERE FIRED.
WHAT DO WE KNOW SO FAR ABOUT
EXACTLY HOW HE WAS CAPTURED?
>> THIS WAS I THINK THE MOST
SURPRISING THING.
HE HAD TOLD SEVERAL PEOPLE,
ASSOCIATES AND FRIENDS, THAT HE
WOULD NEVER BE CAUGHT ALIVE.
THAT HE WOULD -- IN FACT IT WAS
KNOWN THAT HE CARRIED A BULLET
JUST IN CASE THEY EVER
SURROUNDED HIM HE WOULD TAKE
THAT BULLET AND KILL HIMSELF.
WHAT WE KNOW IS THERE WAS A
CHASE A HELICOPTER DID A
MANEUVER OVER THE VEHICLE.
STOPPED AND THEN SUDDENLY OTHER
VEHICLES SHOWED UP.
IT WAS I THINK A MONTH-LONG
INVESTIGATION HEADED BY THE
MEXICAN MARINES WITH SOME HELPS
OF U.S. INTELLIGENCE.
>> SO TELL US A LITTLE BIT MORE
ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR CARTEL,
WHAT KIND OF ACTIVITIES AND AS
YOU WERE STARTING TO SAY, HOW
DEEP A REACH INTO THE UNITED
STATES?
>> WELL, HE WAS -- I MEAN IT WAS
MUCH MORE THAN JUST A MEXICAN
DRUG CARTEL.
HE WAS IN CHARGE OF THE PIRACY,
PROSTITUTION, HUMAN SMUGGLING,
ANYTHING THAT HAD -- THAT MADE
MONEY THROUGH THE ILLICIT ROUTE.
MR. TREVINO MORALES WAS IN
CHARGE.
BEGINNING IN THE EARLY 1990s.
WHERE IN NUEVO LAREDO HE WORKED
FOR A DRUG CARTEL LEADER,
WASHING CARS AND LATER CLEANING
CHIMNEYS.
AND HIS BROTHER WAS A TRUCK
DRIVER WHO WOULD HAUL MARIJUANA
FROM NUEVO LAREDO TO WEST TEXAS.
ONE OF THE GUYS WHO WAS HAULING
THE MARIJUANA FROM MEXICO TO THE
TEXAS MARKET.
>> THE QUESTION ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENS NOW AND HOW MUCH THIS
IMPACTS THE CARTEL'S ABILITY TO
OPERATE, WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT
THE CARTEL, ITS STRUCTURE, ITS
LEADERSHIP, CAN SOMEBODY LIKE
HIS BROTHER STEP RIGHT IN AND
THINGS GO ON, OR DOES THIS HAVE
AN IMPACT?
>> I THINK IT'S BEEN
SIGNIFICANTLY WEAKENED BUT I
THINK THAT IT'S EXPECTED THAT
NUMBER 42 WOULD TRY TO FILL IN
THE VOID.
BUT IT IS ALSO KNOWN THAT OTHER
CARTEL, HIS SON WHO THE ZETAS
WERE ASSOCIATED WITH, HECTOR
de SAN LEVA AND THE CARTEL WERE
THE ONES WHO RECRUITED THE ZETAS
AS ENFORCERS AND THERE'S BEEN A
BIG RIVALRY.
IT'S EXPECTED OR FEARED THAT IN
THE WEEKS TO COME OR THE MONTHS
TO COME THAT THE VIOLENT WILL
SPIKE, AS THEY RETAKE WHAT THEY
STILL CLAIM IS THEIR OWN
DISTRIBUTION ROUTE, I MEAN IT IS
ONE OF THE MOST LUCRATIVE IN THE
ENTIRE MEXICAN BORDER.
PEOPLE EXPECT THINGS TO GET
BLOODY BEFORE THEY GET CALM
AGAIN.
>>Brown: THAT'S WHAT I WAS
WONDERING.
HOW DOES THIS PARTICULAR CARTEL,
WE MENTIONED THE SINALOA
CONSTANTLY IN COMPETITION I
ASSUME AND HOW DOES WHAT
HAPPENED TODAY FIT INTO THE REST
OF THAT OVERALL PICTURE?
>> I THINK THE HOPE IF YOU TALK
TO MEXICAN AUTHORITIES AND U.S.
AUTHORITIES IS THAT WHOEVER
TAKES OVER IN THE END BECAUSE AS
LONG AS YOU HAVE U.S. DEMAND FOR
DRUGS THERE WILL BE A FLOW.
BUT THE HOPE IS THAT WHOEVER
TAKES OVER MDED LEADER.
AND NOT A VICIOUS PERSON LIKE
TREVINO MORALES HAS BEEN OVER
THE YEARS.
>>Brown: OF THE RELATIVELY NEW
ADMINISTRATION OF PENA, HE
PROMISED A DIFFERENT STRATEGY
NOT A WAR LIKE APPROACH.
DOES THIS TELL US SOMETHING
ABOUT THAT?
>> WELL YOU KNOW HE HAS BEEN IN
OFFICE SIX, SEVEN MONTHS.
IT'S TOO EARLY TO TELL.
WHAT PEOPLE KEEP INSISTING IS
THIS IS NOT NECESSARILY AN
ADMINISTRATION VICTORY, MORE THE
MEXICAN MARINES.
BUT, I THINK THE CAPTURING OF
MORALES WILL GO A AWAY TO
ACHIEVING THAT GOAL AT LEAST IN
THE SHORT TERM.
THEY ARE EXPECTING MORE VIOLENCE
IN THE WEEKS TO COME, MONTHS TO
COME BUT I THINK THIS ARREST HAS
CAPTURED IN THE LONG TERM PEOPLE
HOPE THAT SOMEHOW WILL CALM
THINGS ALONG THE U.S. MEXICAN
BORDER AND THINGS WILL RESUME AT
A SLOWER PACE.
THE BLOODSHED WILL COME DOWN AND
FOR A LOT OF DRUGGERS,
BASICALLY FORCED THEM INTO
SILENCE AND CENSORSHIP.
A LOT ARE BREATHING A SIGH OF
RELIEF BUT THEY ALSO KNOW THERE
IS A LONG WAY TO GO BEFORE THEY
CAN CLAIM AND THINK VICTORY.
>>Brown: LET ME ASK YOU,
MEXICO'S PRESIDENT HAD PUT SOME
LIMITATIONS ON U.S. OPERATIONS.
IS THERE ANYTHING KNOWN ABOUT
WHETHER THE U.S. PLAYED ANY ROLE
IN PROVIDING INFORMATION OR
OTHERWISE IN THIS ARREST?
>> WELL, WE'VE BEEN TOLD THAT
THE U.S. DID PLAY A ROLE IN THE
INTELLIGENCE, AND I THINK WE CAN
ALSO KIND OF SEE THAT THE 12
YEARS UNDER THE OPPOSITION PARTY
THAT THEY WERE ABLE TO -- THAT A
LOT OF THE CONTACTS IN THE
REGIONAL LEVEL AT THE LOCAL
LEVEL CONTINUE.
IN SPITE OF TRYING TO LIMIT THE
ROLE OF THE UNITED STATES.
I MEAN, FROM EVERYONE THAT WE
TALKED TO TODAY, THERE WAS A
ROLE OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.
ALTHOUGH IT'S UNDERSTANDABLE I
THINK AT LEAST ON THE U.S -- ON
THE UNITED STATES SIDE THEY'RE
TRYING TO DOWN PLAY THAT AS MUCH
AS POSSIBLE.
>>Brown: ALL RIGHT, ARE ALFREDO
CORCHADO FROM THE DALLAS MORNING
>> Ifill: ONLINE, YOU CAN FIND
OUR GUIDE TO MEXICO'S DRUG
CARTELS.
AND STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, THE SHOWDOWN IN THE
SENATE OVER RULES; THE VIOLENT
CLASHES IN EGYPT; A HUGE SCHOOL
FOR DESPERATELY POOR CHILDREN IN
INDIA; AND A CONVERSATION ABOUT
RACE AND IDENTITY.
BUT FIRST, WITH THE OTHER NEWS
OF THE DAY, HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: NEGATIVE REACTION TO
A FLORIDA JURY'S FINDING THAT
GEORGE ZIMMERMAN BROKE NO LAW
WHEN HE SHOT AND KILLED 17-YEAR-
OLD TRAYVON MARTIN CONTINUED
TODAY.
THERE WERE MORE RALLIES AROUND
THE COUNTRY.
>> NO PEACE.
NO JUSTICE, NO PEACE.
>> FOR A SECOND DAY AND NEITHER
THERE WERE PROTESTS AGAINST THE
VERDICT.
MOST WERE PEACEFUL.
IN WASHINGTON CROWDS RALLIED
OUTSIDE THE WHITE HOUSE AGAINST
THE ACQUIT AM OF ZIMMERMAN.
AND IN HOUSTON ACTIVISTS STAGED
A MOCK FUNERAL IN THE STREETS.
BUT AS NIGHT FELL DEMONSTRATIONS
TURNED VIOLENT.
PROTESTS IN OAKLAND, POLICE MADE
NINE ARRESTS AND USED FLASH
GRENADES TO DISPERSE CROWDS.
AND IN LOS ANGELES 13 ARRESTS
AFTER SOME DEMONSTRATORS BROKE
AWAY FROM A RALLY.
CHARLIE BECK.
>> WE WANT PEOPLE TO SPEAK UP IN
A PEACEFUL AND HONORABLE WAY.
WE CANNOT ALLOW THAT ACTIVITY TO
INFRINGE ON THE PROPERTY RIGHTS
AND THE PHYSICAL SAFETY OF THE
RESIDENTS OF THIS COMMUNITY.
>>Reporter: MEANWHILE ONE OF THE
SIX JURORS WHO RETURNED THE NOT
GUILTY VERDICT TOLD CNN'S
ANDERSON COOPER, THE PANEL WAS
SPLIT AT FIRST AND GETTING TO A
DECISION WAS PAINFUL.
>> I WANT PEOPLE TO KNOW THAT WE
PUT EVERYTHING INTO EVERYTHING
TO GET THIS VERDICT.
WE DIDN'T -- WE DIDN'T JUST GO
IN THERE AND SAY, WE'RE GOING TO
COME IN HERE AND JUST DO GUILTY,
NOT GUILTY.
WE THOUGHT ABOUT IT FOR HOURS.
AND CRIED OVER IT AFTERWARDS.
>>Reporter: IN THE END, THE
JUROR KNOWN ONLY AS B-37 SAYS
SHE BELIEVES ZIMMERMAN DID FEAR
FOR HIS LIFE BUT THAT HE SHOULD
HAVE STAYED IN HIS CAR AND THAT
TRAYVON MARTIN SHOULD HAVE KEPT
WALKING.
>> I THINK BOTH WERE RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE SITUATION THEY HAD
GOTTEN THEMSELVES INTO.
I THINK BOTH OF THEM COULD HAVE
WALKED AWAY.
IT JUST DIDN'T HAPPEN.
>> FOR HIS PART, GEORGE
ZIMMERMAN REMAINED OUT OF SIGHT
TODAY BUT NEW DEMONSTRATIONS
ELSEWHERE.
THIS AFTERNOON U.S. ATTORNEY
>> Holman: THIS AFTERNOON, U.S.
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
CHARGED THAT "STAND-YOUR-GROUND"
LAWS IN FLORIDA AND ELSEWHERE
ENCOURAGE VIOLENT SITUATIONS TO
ESCALATE.
HE ADDRESSED E N.THA.A.C.P.
CONVENTION IN ORLANDO.
>> THERE HAS ALWAYS BEEN A LEGAL
DEFENSE FOR USING DEADLY FORCE,
IF-- AND THE "IF" IS IMPORTANT--
IF NO SAFE RETREAT WAS
AVAILABLE.
BUT WE MUST EXAMINE LAWS THAT
TAKE THIS FURTHER BY ELIMINATING
THE COMMON SENSE AND AGE-OLD
REQUIREMENT THAT PEOPLE WHO FEEL
THREATENED HAVE A DUTY TO
RETREAT, OUTSIDE THEIR HOME, IF
THEY CAN DO SO SAFELY.
>> Holman: HOLDER GAVE NO
INDICATION WHEN THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT WILL DECIDE WHETHER
TO CHARGE GEORGE ZIMMERMAN WITH
FEDERAL CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATIONS.
THE MAN WHO LEAKED INFORMATION
ON U.S. SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS,
EDWARD SNOWDEN, FORMALLY ASKED
TODAY FOR TEMPORARY ASYLUM IN
RUSSIA.
HE'S BEEN IN THE MOSCOW
AIRPORT'S TRANSIT ZONE FOR THE
LAST THREE WEEKS.
IF HE'S GRANTED ASYLUM, SNOWDEN
COULD WORK AND TRAVEL IN RUSSIA
FOR AT LEAST A YEAR.
A NORTH KOREAN-FLAGGED SHIP IS
BEING HELD BY PANAMA AFTER
AUTHORITIES THERE APPARENTLY
FOUND BALLISTIC MISSILE
EQUIPMENT.
THE SHIP HAD SAILEDROM  FCUBA ON
ITS WAY TO THE PACIFIC VIA THE
PANAMA CANAL.
PRESIDENT RICARDO MARTINELLI
SAYS HIS GOVERNMENT ORIGINALLY
WAS TIPPED OFF THAT THE VESSEL
CARRIED DRUGS, HIDDEN BENEATH
BAGS OF SUGAR.
INSTEAD, THEY FOUND WEAPONS.
.
>> IT'S EXTREMELY SOPHISTICATED.
IT APPEARS THAT THESE ARE AERIAL
OR DEFENSE MISSILES.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT'S IN THE
OTHER CONTAINERS BUT WE WILL
HAVE TO TAKE OUT ALL THE SUGAR
TO DETERMINE WHAT'S IN THIS
SHIP.
>> Holman: MARTINELLI SAID THE
SHIP'S NORTH KOREAN CREW-- 35 IN
ALL-- RESISTED EFFORTS TO DIVERT
THE VESSEL INTO PORT.
THEY WERE TAKEN INTO CUSTODY.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, INVESTORS
TURNED CAUTIOUS A DAY BEFORE THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE
GIVES HIS LATEST REPORT ON THE
ECONOMY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 32 POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW
15,452.
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 9 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 3598.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO GWEN.
>> Ifill: WITH A MID-MORNING
DEADLINE LOOMING, SENATE LEADERS
REACHED AN AGREEMENT TODAY TO
AVERT A SHOWDOWN OVER CHANGING
THE CHAMBER'S RULES.
>>Ifill: SENATE MAJOR LITER
HARRY REED EMERGED FROM TENSE
NEGOTIATION TO DECLARE THE
SENATE HAS ACHIEVED AEW N
NORMAL.
>> I THINK IT IS SOMETHING THAT
IS GOOD FOR THE SENATE.
IT IS A COMPROMISE.
AND I THINK WE GET WHAT WE WANT.
AND THEY GET WHAT THEY WANT.
NOT A BAD DEAL.
>> A COMPROMISE WHICH CLEARED
THE WAY FOR SENATE CONFIRMATION
OF FIVE WHITE HOUSE NOMINEES AND
THE REPLACEMENT OF TWO OTHERS
ENDED A PARTISAN STANDOFF THAT
COULD HAVE GROUND THE SENATE TO
A HALT.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYBODY.
Ifill: SENATORS MOVED TO
CONFIRM RICHARD CORDRAY, HIS
NOMINATION HAS BEEN IN LIMBO FOR
TWO YEARS.
AN EARLY PROCEDURAL VOTE CLEARED
THE WAY.
>> ON THIS VOTE THE YEAS ARE 71,
THE NAYS ARE 29.
>> NEXT UP.
THOMAS PEREZ, GINA McCARTHY,
FRED HOCKBERG AS HEAD OF THE
EXPORT IMPORT BANK AND MARK
GASTON PIERCE, SLATED TO STEP IN
AS HEAD OF THE NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
TWO OTHER NOMINEES, RICHARD
GRIFFIN AND SHARON BLOCK.
PARTISAN RANCOR HEATED UP IN
RECENT DAYS AS REED VOWED TO
CHANGE SENATE RULES AND VOWED TO
QUASH FILIBUSTERS.
BUT DISTRUST REMAINED.
>> I DO HOPE THAT MEMBERS ON THE
OTHER SIDE WILL NOTE THIS
GOOD-FATE EFFORT.
I DON'T THINK IT'S HEALTHY FOR
THIS BODY TO CONSTANTLY HAVE
POTENTIAL RULES CHANGES HANGING
OVER THE ISSUES OF OUR NATION.
>> WHILE DISAGREEMENT ADDRESSES
THE IMMEDIATE NEED FOR THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
TO HAVE HIS CABINET AND HIS
SENIOR STAFF CONFIRMED, THIS
AGREEMENT TODAY ONLY ADDRESSES
ONE SYMPTOM OF A SERIOUSLY
DYSFUNCTIONAL SENATE.
>>Ifill: A SHOWDOWN WAS AVERTED
ONLY AFTER SENATORS GATHERED
LAST NIGHT FOR A RARE BIPARTISAN
CLOSED DOOR MEETING IN THE OLD
SENATE CHAMBER.
TODAY, LEADERS FROM BOTH PARTIES
SAID THE CRISIS WAS AVOIDED ONLY
AFTER THE OTHER SIDE GAVE IN.
>> THE UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
NONE OF OUR RIGHTS WILL BE
WAIVED.
I MEAN FOR EXAMPLE, 60-VOTE
THRESHOLDS ON CONTROVERSIAL
NOMINEES WILL STILL HAVE TO BE
ACHIEVED.
SO IN A SENSE, THAT'S THE
REGULAR WAY THAT WE HANDLE
BUSINESS HERE IN THE SENATE.
>> THERE'S A FEELING AROUND
HERE.
NOW FEELINGS DON'T LAST FOREVER.
AND I UNDERSTAND THAT.
BUT WE'RE NOT -- THEY'RE NOT
SACRIFICING THEIR RIGHTS TO
FILIBUSTER AND WE DAMN SURE ARE
NOT CHANGE ARE OUR RIGHT TO
CHANGE THE RULE IF NECESSARY.
>>Ifill: 60 VOTES WILL STILL BE
NEEDED TO OVERCOME FUTURE
FILIBUSTERS AND TODAY'S
AGREEMENT DOES NOT APPLY TO
JUDICIAL NOMINEES.
BUT FOR NOW THE SENATE PLANS TO
CONTINUE VOTING ON PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S BEING NOMINATIONS, A
LOGJAM YEARS IN THE MAKING.
>>> WE ARE JOINED BY GENERAL
PLAN MERKLEY AND MISSISSIPPI
ROGER WICKER.
GENTLEMEN, WHY DID IT TAKE FOR A
BIPARTISAN AGREEMENT FOR THIS TO
COME ABOUT?
>> IT COMES TO LISTENING TO ONE
ANOTHER.
I MADE THE POINT LAST THURSDAY
TO LEERD REED, OFTENTIMES IT'S
THE LEERDZ SPEAKING TO AN EMPTY
CHAMBER AND RANK AND FILE
MEMBERS LIKE JEFF AND I DON'T
TALK ENOUGH.
I THINK IT'S A MATTER OF
LISTENING LEARNING WHAT THE
GRIEVANCES WERE.
AND TALK ABOUT COMMON GROUND.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
GRIEVANCES, SENATOR MERKLEY.
WHAT DID EACH SIDE GET IN THIS
CASE?
>> THIS CASE SEVEN OR EIGHT UP
OR DOWN VOTES, AND WE HOPE THIS
WILL BE A MODEL FOR RETURNING TO
THE NORMS AND TRANSITIONS OF THE
SENATE, CERTAINLY, IF NEITHER
SIDE GAVE GROUND ON THE FUTURE,
NEITHER OF THE REPUBLICANS
SAYING THEY WON'T FILIBUSTER,
AND DEMOCRATS, THAT WE WON'T
COME BACK TO THIS CONVERSATION
AGAIN.
>>Ifill: ALL OF THE AMERICANS
WATCHING THE WAY THE SENATE
FUNCTIONS MIGHT ASK A QUESTION.
SENATOR REED SAID IT EARLIER
TODAY, I'LL PUT IT TO YOU
SENATOR MERKLEY AND I WANT TO
HEAR FROM YOU SENATOR WICKER, IS
THIS A NEW NORMAL OR A VACATION
ON THE OLD?
>> WE CERTAINLY HOPE THAT IT
WILL BE THE NEW NORMAL BECAUSE
ESSENTIALLY, THERE IS A WAY TO
SUMMARIZE THE SENATE.
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE A
DELIBERATIVE BODY, SOMETIMES
CALLED A COOLING SAUCER AS
PRESIDENT WASHINGTON, WE'VE ALSO
ADOPTED THESE NUTRITIOUS AND I
SAY THIS IN THE BEST CON-- THESE
NEW TRADITIONS.
AROUND FROM THE PERIOD OF TIME
FROM PRESIDENT EISENHOWER TO
PRESIDENT FORD THERE WASN'T A
SINGLE FILIBUSTER OF EXECUTIVE
DETERMINATION.
RETURNING TO THAT POWER OF
ADVICE AND CONSENT WAS NOT
OBSTRUCT AND DESTROY IS VERY
IMPORTANT.
>>Ifill: IS THAT WHERE WE ARE
TODAY, SENATOR WICKER, OBSTRUCT
AND DESTROY INSTEAD OF ADVISE
AND CONSENT?
>> I THINK THAT'S IN THE EYE OF
THE BEHOLDER.
OFTEOFTENTIMES A LEADER WILL CAL
THAT A FILIBUSTER.
LET ME MAKE THIS POINT ABOUT THE
APPOINTMENT.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS APPOINTED
SOME 1500 EXECUTIVE AND AGENCY
NOMINATIONS.
HE'S GOTTEN ALL OF THEM THROUGH
EXCEPT FOR FOUR.
IF HE WERE A MAJOR LEAGUE BATTER
HE'D BE BATTING 999.
SO IT'S ONE THING TO SAY WE HAVE
HAD A LOT OF FILIBUSTERS.
I THINK THE RESULT HAS BEEN
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT OF THE
MINORITY TO GET SOME
INFORMATION.
TO HAVE SOME FACE-TIME WITH
NOMINEES.
BUT IN THE LONG RUN, THE VAST
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF THEM
GET CONFIRMED, AND WE'VE STILL
PROTECTED THE EXECUTIVE'S
PREROGATIVE AND THE RIGHT OF THE
MINORITY, AND WE STILL HAVE A
SENATE THAT REACHES CONSENSUS,
AND CONCILIATION.
>>Ifill: SENATOR WICKER YOU'RE
NOT INCLUDING JUDICIAL
NOMINATIONS IN YOUR FIGURES, ARE
YOU?
>> THERE'S NEVER -- AS A MATTER
OF FACT SINCE THE GANG OF 14,
BACK IN 2005, THERE HAVE BEEN
ONLY TWO JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS
STOPPED THROUGH THE FILIBUSTER.
SO I THINK OUR RECORD IS PRETTY
GOOD.
OFTENTIMES, WE USE THAT, TO GET
EXTRA INFORMATION, TO GIVE US A
LITTLE EXTRA TIME FOR MORE
CONSIDERATION.
BUT IN EIGHT YEARS' TIME, ONLY
TWO JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS STOPPED
BY THIS FILIBUSTER, BUT IT
ACTUALLY WAS A PRACTICE BEGUN BY
THE DEMOCRATS.
STILL A PRETTY GOOD RECORD OF
CONFIRMATION OVERALL.
>>Ifill: SENATOR MERKLEY, AT
ADISTANCE IT LOOKS LIKE THE WELL
IS PRETTY MUCH POISONED BY THE
DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS IN THE
HOUSE.
AND IN THE SENATE, WHAT DOES
THIS AGREEMENT FOR TEN PORTEND ?
>> I THINK THIS IS A TIME WHEN
DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS SIT
DOWN, LISTENED TO EACH OTHER AND
FORMED A COMPROMISE.
IT'S AN EFFORT TO MAKE THE
SENATE MORE FUNCTIONAL AND
CERTAINLY, AS YOU INDICATED IN
YOUR PREVIOUS QUESTION, WE HAVE
A BIG CHALLENGE WITH JUDICIAL
NOMINATION, MY COLLEAGUE'S
NUMBERS DON'T REALLY CAPTURE THE
FACT THAT WE ONLY BRING A
NOMINATION TO THE FLOOR ONCE THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER HAS ASSURED US
THERE WON'T BE A FILIBUSTER IN
ORDER TO SAVE TIME, VAST AMOUNT
OF DELAY AND OBSTRUCTION THAT IS
TAKING PLACE, IN ADDITION TO THE
NUMBERS THAT HE REPRESENTED.
AND HERE WE ARE, WE CAN'T EVEN
START A CONFERENCE COMMITTEE ON
A BUDGET EVEN THOUGH THE HOUSE
HAS PASSED A BUDGET AND THE
SENATE HAS PASSED A BUDGET
BECAUSE IT IS BEING
FILIBUSTERED.
CERTAINLY THAT'S STRANGE BECAUSE
WHY SHOULDN'T YOU BE ABLE TO
START A CONVERSATION WITH THE
HOUSE TO TRY TO REACH COMMON
BUDGET NUMBERS.
WE CAN'T GET A BILL TO THE FLOOR
ON SEQUESTRATION BECAUSE IT'S
BEEN FILIBUSTERED.
WE CAN'T GET A BILL TO THE FLOOR
BECAUSE IT'S, WE WORKED OUT
ADEAL WE HOPE IT WILL BE A MODEL
FOR BETTER PATH FORWARD BUT
WE'VE GOT A LOT MORE
CONVERSATIONS TO WORK ON.
AND THAT'S CRITICAL.
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW, THE SENATE'S
DYSFUNCTION NOT ONLY IS A
DISSERVICE TO THE COUNTRY, IT'S
BREEDING VAST SKIN CIVIL
ABOUT -- CYNICISM ABOUT THE
ABILITY OF THE GOVERNMENT TO
TAKE ON CHALLENGES OF THE
COUNTRY.
>>Ifill: SENATOR I DO WANT YOU
TO RESPOND TO THAT ESPECIALLY
ABOUT THE PART ABOUT WHETHER YOU
AGREE THAT THE SENATE IS
ACTUALLY DYSFUNCTIONAL.
>> I THINK THE SENATE IS
DYSFUNCTIONAL FOR A NUMBER OF
REASONS.
THERE ARE A LOT OF FRUSTRATIONS
ON THE PART OF DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS.
BUT LET ME SPEAK TO THE BUDGET
ISSUE.
WE DIDN'T HAVE A BUDGET FOR
THREE YEARS.
NOW INSTEAD OF MOVING TO GO TO
CONFERENCE, THE DEMOCRATIC
MAJORITY IS ASKING FOR UNANIMOUS
CONSENT TO GO TO CONGRESS.
BECAUSE THEY KNOW IF THEY MOVED
TO GO TO CONGRESS OUR SIDE WOULD
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO SEND SOME
MOTIONS TO INSTRUCT TO THE
FLOOR.
SO THERE'S TWO SIDES TO THIS
ISSUE:  AND FRANKLY IF THE
CHAIRMAN OF BUDGET AND THE
LEADER OF THE DEMOCRATS WANT TO
GO TO CONFERENCE, THEY CAN
GO TO
CONFERENCE.
WE WOULD HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
OFFER OUR AMENDMENTS AND GO
FORWARD.
INSTEAD THEY'VE MADE IT MORE
DIFFICULT BY MAKING IT WHERE 100
OF US HAVE TO AGREE.
>>Ifill: I GUESS MY FINAL
QUESTION FOR YOU BOTH IS WHETHER
THERE ALWAYS HAS TO BE A NUCLEAR
OPTION AS THIS IS CALLED IN
ORDER FOR MOVEMENT TO HAPPEN ON
ANY ISSUE.
SENATOR MERKLEY AND THEN SENATOR
WICKER.
>> I WOULD SAY AT THIS POINT
THERE'S SO MUCH IN PARTISAN DIED
AND WE DON'T HAVE THE THREE
NETWORKS PULLING US TOGETHER.
FROM THE 1970s AND 80s.
WE DON'T HAVE THE RELATIONSHIPS
THAT COME FROM BEING IN THE FOX
HOLE TOGETHER AS THE SENATORS
DID WHEN I FIRST CAME HERE IN
1976 AS AN INTERN.
WE DON'T HAVE THAT FRAMEWORK.
AND THEREFORE, WE EITHER NEED TO
FIND WAYS TO RECONSTRUCT A NEW
SOCIAL CONTRACT, OR WE NEED TO
CHANGE THE RULES.
AND THAT OPTION OF CHANGING THE
RULES IS THE OPTION WE DON'T
WANT TO GO TO.
IT'S WHY SENATOR REED STARTED IN
JANUARY, 2011, WITH A
GENTLEMAN'S AGREEMENT, IT'S WHY
HE REACHED A BIPARTISAN
AGREEMENT WITH MINOR CHANGES IN
JANUARY 2013.
BUT IF WE CANNOT FIND THAT
SOCIAL CONTRACT, THEN WE HAVE
THE RESPONSIBILITY TO THE
AMERICAN CITIZENS TO MAKE THE
SENATE WORK AND THAT MEANS
CHANGING THE RULES AND THAT
PROBABLY MEANS USING A NUCLEAR
OPTION.
>>Ifill: SENATOR WICKER IT
DOESN'T SOUND LIKE ANYTHING MUCH
HAS CHANGED.
>> NO, ACTUALLY, I FEEL A LOT
BETTER THAN -- I THINK WE ARE IN
MUCH BETTER SHAPE THAN WE WERE
AT THIS TIME YESTERDAY.
WE HAD A SESSION IN THE OLD
SENATE CHAMBER AND WE ACTUALLY
LISTENED TO EACH OTHER, ALMOST
100 SENATORS WERE IN THERE.
WE LISTENED FOR THREE HOURS AND
15 MINUTES AND I THINK THIS IDEA
OF A SOCIAL CONTRACT WHERE RANK
AND FILE MEMBERS LIKE JEFF AND
LIKE ROGERRE ABLE TO
TALK TO EACH OTHER AND ACTUALLY
AIR GRIEVANCES APART FROM THE
LEADERSHIPS TALKING PAST EACH
OTHER.
I FEEL A LOT BETTER AND I THINK
WE'RE ON A BETTER TRACK BECAUSE
OF WHAT WE'VE GONE THROUGH.
>>Ifill: SENATOR ROGER WICKER OF
MISSISSIPPI, SENATOR JEFF
MERKLEY FROM OREGON ABOUT.ABOUT.
>> RICHARD CORD RAY WAS
CONFIRMED TO HEAD THE CONSUMER
PROTECTION BUREAU.
>> Brown: NOW TO THE VOLATILE
SITUATION IN EGYPT.
AFTER A WEEK OF RELATIVE PEACE
IN THE COUNTRY, VIOLENT CLASHES
RETURNED LAST NIGHT.
RAY SUAREZ REPORTS.
>>Suarez: SUPPORTERS OF OUT
OFFED PRESIDENT MOHAMED MORSI
POURED INTO CAIRO STREETS LAST
NIGHT CALLING FOR HIS RETURN TO
POWER.
THEY MARCHED INTO WILL OF THE
CAPITAL'S BUSIEST BRINGS ANS
THAT'S WHERE TENSIONS BOILED
OVER.
PROOF FROM PBS'S FRONT LINE,
DEMONSTRATORS BURNED TIRES AND
BLOCKED THE ROADWAY.
MORSI'S MUSLIM BROTHER HOOD,
SEVEN PEOPLE WERE KILLED MORE
THAN 260 WERE HURT AND MORE THAN
400 ARRESTED.
THIS MORNING, RELATIVE CALM
RETURNED, WITH MORSI SUPPORTERS
PROMISED IT'S NOT OVER.
WHAT HAPPENED YESTERDAY IS PART
OF THE MILITARY'S PLAN TO PLAY
AROUND WITH PEOPLE'S NERVES.
BUT WE WOULD LIKE TO SEND A
MESSAGE TO THE MILITARY THAT
EVEN IF THEY KILL HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WE WILL NOT
LEAVE UNTIL LEGITIMACY IS
RETURNED.
>> THERE'S NO GOING BACK.
FANI SPOKE RECENTLY WITH
FRONTLINE.
>> WHAT ARE YOUR OPTIONS?
AS I SAID PREVIOUSLY, THE BALLOT
BOX IS A LICENSE TO GOVERN.
IT'S NOT A MANDATE TO RULE.
SO YOU CAN GOVERN.
THAT MEANS GOVERNING YOUR
CONSTITUENCY AND THE OTHER
CONSTITUENCIES, DOES NOT GIVE
YOU A RIGHT TO IMPOSE YOUR
VISION OF EGYPT ON US ALL.
>> THE MILITARY LEADER WHO OUT
OFFED MORSI WAS NAMED DEPUTY
PRIME MINISTER TODAY.
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD REFUSED
TO TAKE ANY PART.
ASLAM AL ARIAN SPOKE WITH
CHARLES SENNOTT WORKING WITH THE
TEAM.
>> A GREEN LIGHT CAME FROM
WASHINGTON TO THOSE MILITANTS,
TO THE LEADERS OF THE ARMY.
TO SUPPORT THIS REVOLUTION,
ANTIREVOLUTION, THE MILITARY,
AND I HOPE THAT AMERICANS CAN
UNDERSTAND.
THEY LOST SIDES AND LOSTPOW ER
IN THIS REGION WHEN THEY ARE THE
WILL AND THE PROCESS OF THE
PEOPLE IN A DEMOCRATIC PROCESS.
>>Suarez: DEPUTY SECRETARY OF
STATE WILLIAM BURNS WAS IN CAIRO
YESTERDAY INSISTING THAT THE
U.S. IS NOT TAKING SIDES.
>> WE KNOW THAT THE EGYPTIANS
MUST FORGE THEIR OWN PATH TO
DEMOCRACY.
WE WILL NOT TRY TO IMPOSE OUR
ROLE ON EGYPT.
WHAT THE UNITED STATES WILL DO
IS STAND BY NO PARTICULAR
PERSONALITIES OR PARTIES.
>> I TALKED TO CHARLES SENNOTT A
SHORT TIME AGO.
CHARLES SENNOTT WELCOME.
SINCE THE CONFRONTATION THAT WE
SAW IN YOUR FOOTAGE EGYPT HAS
SWORN IN A NEW GOVERNMENT, THE
INTERIM PRESIDENT HAS INSTALLED
NEW CABINET MINISTERS.
IS IT A CALMER DAY AND NIGHT IN
CAIRO?
>> IT WAS CALMER TODAY.
I THINK ITFELT  LIKE A RAMADAN
TODAY, WHERE PEOPLE ARE FASTING
FOR THE HOLY MONTH OFI THINK LAS
WERE SO VIOLENT, SO INTENSE THAT
TODAY SEEMED TO BE A DAY WHERE
EVERYONE WAS REGROUPING ON SOME
LEVEL REFLECTING ON SOME LEVEL
WHERE THIS IS HEADED.
>>Suarez: WHICH ARE FACTIONS ON
THE STREET?
EGYPTIANS TAKING TO THE STREET
TO SAY WHAT IS ON THEIR MIND.
>> WE WERE AT THE MOSQUE WHICH
HAS BECOME THEIR HEADQUARTERS
AND THERE WE TALKED TO THE
EGYPTIAN LEADERSHIP AND SAID
THEY ORGANIZED THE MARCHES LAST
NIGHT ON THE 6 OCTOBER BRIDGE
WHICH IS THE CENTRAL ARTERY THAT
RUNS THROUGH CAIRO AND THEY SAR
VERY OPENLY THAT THEY ARE
ORGANIZING THESE MARCHES AS A
WAY TO PROTEST WHAT THEY SEE IS
A MILITARY COUP.
THEY SAID THE ELECTED PRESIDENT
MORSI WAS DETAINED BY THE
MILITARY, IS KEPT IN AN
UNDISCLOSED LOCATION AND THAT HE
IS THE LEGITIMATE PRESIDENT AND
THAT THEY ARE GOING TO KEEP UP
THE STREET DEMONSTRATIONS UNTIL
HIS PRESIDENCY IS RESTORED AND
HE IS RELEASED.
THE OTHER SIDE IS HARDER TO
DEFINE AND IT'S BROADER AND
REPRESENTED BY MILLIONS OF
PEOPLE WHO TOOK TO THE STREETS
OFTEN JUNE 30th DEMANDING THAT
MORSI CALL EARLIER ELECTIONS OR
RESIGN.
THAT GROUP WHO USED TO BE WITH
THE MUSLIN BROTHERHOOD WHO VOTED
FOR MORSI WHO IS A LARGE GROUP
OF MORE LIBERALS, MORE SECULAR
SIDE OF SOCIETY, I THINK IT'S
HARDER TO DEFINE THEM.
THEY REPRESENT A LOT OF PEOPLE.
BUT THEY CAME OUT IN FORCE AND
THEY SPOKE AND THEY BELIEVE THAT
IT IS A GOOD THING THAT MORSI
HAS BEEN OUT OFFED -- OUSTED.
I DON'T THINK IT IS A GOOD THING
THAT THE MILITARY INTERVENE TO
ACCOMPLISH THIS BUT THERE IS A
SENSE OF TWO VERY DICT SIDES
BREWING.
MUSLIN BROTHERHOOD ONE SIDE, AND
THE OTHER SIDE IS A BIG
COLLECTION OF A BROAD GROUPINGS
OF SECULAR, SOME RELIGION AND
OTHERS, WHO -- RELIGIOUS AND
OTHERS WHO BELIEVE WE HAVE TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH THIS
DEMOCRACY, WE HAVE TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH NEW ELECTIONS AND
WE NEED TO ELECT A NEW
PRESIDENT.
>>Suarez: YOU MENTIONED IT WAS
RAMADAN AND IN MUCH OF THE WORLD
PEOPLE STAYING UP LATE HAVING
DINNER TOGETHER LATE AT NIGHT.
DOES THAT CREATE A SITUATION
WHERE THERE ARE MORE LIKELY TO
BE PEOPLE OUT ON THE STREET LATE
AT NIGHT AND MAKE IT EASIER TO
GET SOMETHING GOING POLITICALLY?
>> YOU KNOW I THINK RAMADAN CUTS
BOTH WAYS.
RANL DAN IS A TIME WHEN PEOPLE
ARE FASTING FROM SUNRISE TO
SUNSET.
IT'S VERY HOT HERE.
IT IS A TIME WHEN PEOPLE ARE
VERY QUIET DURING THE DAY.
AS THE SUN SETS THEY BREAK THE
FAST AND THEY GATHER LARGELY AS
FAMILIES.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE ARE HEARING
A LOT ABOUT OUR FAMILIES THAT
ARE DEEPLY DIVIDED ON WHAT WAS
THE RIGHT THING TO DO HERE.
SHOULD MORSI HAVE BEEN PUT DOWN
AS THE PRESIDENT, OUSTED BY THE
MILITARY OR NOT?
DID THE MILITARY DO THE RIGHT
THING?
UPHOLDING YOU KNOW SORT OF THE
GREATER DEMOCRACY HERE, THE SORT
OF PUBLIC SENTIMENT ON THE
STREET.
BUT AT NIGHT, YES, DEFINITELY,
YOU SEE THIS SENSE, THAT YOU
KNOW, AROUND 9:00 AT NIGHT THERE
IS DEFINITELY A LARGER PRESENCE
ON THE STREET, PEOPLE STAY UP
LATHE AND IT CUTS THE OTHER WAY.
YOU HAVE A LOT OF YOUNG PEOPLE
WHO ARE TAKING TO THE STREETS
AFTER BREAKING THE FAST AND WE
SAW THAT LAST NIGHT.
THE STREETS WERE PACKED.
IT WAS VERY VIOLENT
CONFRONTATIONS AS YOU HAVE SEEN
AND VERY MUCH A SENSE OF THE
MUSLIM BROTHER HOOD THAT THEY
ARE GOING TO CONFRONT THIS.
WHERE WIT WILL IT END?
WILL IT CONTINUE TO ESCALATE OR
WILL IT TONE DOWN?
RIGHT NOW IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO
CALL.
>>Suarez: IN THE PAST WEEKS IN
THE UNITED STATES PRESIDENT
OBAMA HAS BEEN CRITICIZED BY
ELECTED OFFICIALS FOR TAKING
SOMEWHAT OF A HANDS-OFF ATTITUDE
FOR EGYPT WHILE IN EGYPT RIVAL
FACTION HE ARE COMPLAINING THAT
THE UNITED STATES IS TOO
INVOLVED.
HOW IS THAT HAPPENING?
>> YOU KNOW THIS IS A DEEPLY
DIVIDED COUNTRY.
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD ON THE ONE
SIDE, THE OPPOSITION TO MORSI ON
THE OTHER.
THE WUNG THING YOU FIND UNITY ON
HERE IS THAT THE UNITED STATES
IS AT FAULT.
WHAT I MEAN BY THAT IS THE
MUSLIN BROTHERHOOD WILL SAY THE
UNITED STATES GAVE A GREEN LIGHT
TO THE MILL TRY COUP AS THEY
WOULD DEFINE IT.
THE OTHER SIDE THEY WOULD SAY
THAT THE UNITED STATES GAVE TOO
MUCH DEFERENCE TO MORSI THAT
THEY WERE SUPPORTIVE TO HIS
GOVERNMENT EVEN AS SO MANY HERE
FEEL IT WAS FAILING, FAILING ON
ECONOMY, FAILING ON SECURITY.
IT WAS A GRAB FOR POWER AS SO
MANY PEOPLE HERE FEEL BY MORSI
SO YOU GET THIS DEEP DIVISION
YET YOU GET UNITY ON CRITICISM
OF THE UNITED STATES.
VERY DIFFICULT POSITION FOR
AMBASSADOR ANN PATTERSON HERE,
FOR THE DEPUTY SECRETARY OF
STATE, WILLIAM BURNS WHO IS NOW
IN THE COUNTRY AND VISITING.
YOU KNOW I THINK MOST PEOPLE SAY
THE UNITED STATES SHOULD STAY
OUT OF IT GOING FORWARD AND IT'S
ONE OF THOSE VERY, VERY
DIFFICULT FOREIGN POLICY
QUESTIONS, FOR WHAT IS THE MOST
EFFECTIVE AND PRODUCTIVE WAY FOR
UNITED STATES TO PLAY A ROLE
HERE.
>>Suarez: CHARLES SENNOTT OF
GLOBAL POST.
YOUR FRONTLINE DOCUMENTARY WILL
BE ON IN THE FALL.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, GOOD TO BE WITH
YOU.
>> Ifill: NEXT, BRINGING
OPPORTUNITY TO A VAST, HIDDEN
POPULATION OF ABORIGINAL
CHILDREN IN INDIA.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT FRED DE
SAM LAZARO VISITED ONE SCHOOL
THAT IS TRYING TO BREAK THE
CYCLE OF POVERTY ON MAS ASIVE
SCALE.
HIS REPORT WAS PRODUCED IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE PULITZER
CENTER ON CRISIS REPORTING, AND
IS PART OF OUR SERIES, AGENTS
FOR CHANGE.
>> Reporter: THE 18,000 STUDENTS
AT THE KALINGA INSTITUTE OF
SOCIAL SCIENCES-- ONLY HALF OF
THEM WERE GATHERED IN THIS
ASSEMBLY-- HAVE TWO THINGS IN
COMMON.
THEY COME FROM INDIA'S SO-CALLED
"TRIBAL COMMUNITIES," AND
THEY'RE EXTREMELY POOR.
THE SCHOOL OFFERS GRADES ONE
THROUGH 12, AND IS AN AMBITIOUS
ATTEMPT TO TRANSFORM THEIR
LIVES.
IT IS THE BRAINCHILD OF ACHUTYA
SAMANTA, A 47-YEAR-OLD
ENTREPRENEUR.
>> THE CHILDREN WHO COME HERE TO
STUDY, THEY ARE STRICKEN WITH
POVERTY AND ILLITERACY, AND
THEIR PARENTS THEMSELVES HAVE
NOT HAD MUCH OF AN EDUCATION.
MY GOAL IS TO ERADICATE POVERTY
THROUGH EDUCATION AND BRING THEM
INTO THE MAINSTREAM.
>> Reporter: THOUGH NOT A TRIBAL
MEMBER HIMSELF, SAMANTA GREW UP
IN POVERTY.
BUT HE WAS ABLE TO USE
SCHOLARSHIPS TO GET A COLLEGE
EDUCATION.
IN THE '90s, SAMANTA FOUNDED A
PRIVATE UNIVERSITY, OFFERING
COURSEWORK IN HIGH-DEMAND FIELDS
LIKE ENGINEERING, BUSINESS, AND
MEDICINE, JUST AS THE INDIAN
ECONOMY TOOK OFF HERE IN EASTERN
BHUBANESWAR AND IN CITIES ACROSS
INDIA.
REVENUES FROM THE KALINGA
INSTITUTE OF INDUSTRIAL
TECHNOLOGY LARGELY FUND THE
PRIMARY SCHOOL.
SAMANTA, WHO LIVES SIMPLY AND
TAKES NO SALARY, SAYS HE WANTS
TO GIVE TRIBAL CHILDREN THE SAME
OPPORTUNITIES HE GOT.
>> THE MAJOR DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THE URBAN POVERTY WE SEE AND THE
POVERTY AMONG ABORIGINAL PEOPLE
IS THAT THE ABORIGINAL PEOPLE
WHO LIVE IN THE FORESTS ARE
COMPTELYLE CUT OFF, IN TERMS OF
AWARENESS OF THE WORLD OUTSIDE
INDIA.
>> Reporter: INDIA HAS SOME 400
DISTINCT ABORIGINAL TRIBES WHO
NUMBER ABOUT 80 MILLION.
THEY'VE LIVED FAR OUTSIDE THE
MAINSTREAM FOR MILLENNIA, IN
FORESTS ACROSS CENTRAL AND
EASTERN INDIA.
BRITISH COLONIZATION AND, IN
RECENT TIMES, CORRUPT OR ABSENT
GOVERNANCE AND MINING ACTIVITY
HAVE DISPLACED TRIBAL PEOPLE AND
HELPED SPAWN A RADICAL MAOIST
INSURGENCY, SAYS MACALESTER
COLLEGE PROFESSOR JAMES LAINE.
>> IN TERMS OF SOCIAL STATUS,
THEY MORE OR LESS TRANSLATE AS
SIMILAR TO UNTOUCHABLE CASTES.
YOU'RE COMPLETELY LEFT OUT, AND
SOMEONE COMES ALONG AND SAYS
WE'D LIKE TO CREATE AN
EGALITARIAN SOCIETY.
THAT MIGHT BE QUITE ATTRACTIVE
TO THE YOUNG PERSON OF TRIBAL
BACKGROUND.
>> Reporter: THE MAOIST MOVEMENT
IS ABOUT FOUR DECADES OLD, AND
HAS TURNED INCREASINGLY VIOLENT
IN RECENT YEARS.
IN MAY, MAOIST GUERILLAS
AMBUSHED A CONVOY AND KILLED
SEVERAL REGIONAL POLITICAL
LEADERS AND THEIR BODYGUARDS,
THE MOST RECENT OF SOME 6,000
DEATHS OVER THE YEARS, MANY OF
INNOCENT TRIBAL MEMBERS.
>> THERE'S A BIG CHUNK OF INDIA
WHICH IS LARGELY FORESTED, WHERE
FUNDAMENTALLY THE GOVERNMENT
DOES NOT REACH.
>> Reporter: AND IT'S IN ONE
CORNER OF THE REGION, EASTERN
ORISSA STATE, THAT THE KALINGA
SCHOOL HAS REACHED OUT.
>> EDUCATION OFFERS THE BEST
ALTERNATIVE TO THE PATH OF THE
MAOISTS.
>> Reporter: HERE EDUCATION
BEGINS WITH MEETING THE MOST
BASIC NEEDS ON AN INDUSTRIAL
SCALE AND FREE OF CHARGE TO THE
STUDENTS.
>> NOW THEY'RE GOING FOR LUNCH.
>> Reporter: HOW MANY STUDENTS?
>> IT IS APPROXIMATELY NOW 8,000
PLUS ARE GOING FOR LUNCH.
>> Reporter: 8,000!
THESE STUDENTS FOLLOWED 10,000
THOUSAND OTHERS WHO'D JUST
FINISHED.
IT TAKES FOUR SHIFTS OF 45
MINUTES TO GET EVERYONE THEIR
LUNCH-- MOST DAYS A STAPLE RICE
AND LENTIL CURRY.
THEY'LL BE BACK A FEW HOURS
LATER FOR SUPPER.
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE ACTUAL
COOKING, STUDENTS HELP OUT WITH
ALMOST EVERYTHING: SERVING FOOD,
CLEANING; EVEN PRODUCING THEIR
OWN CLOTHING.
>> FOR US, THE CHALLENGE IS
FINANCE.
IF I WOULD HAVE MORE FINANCE, I
WOULD HAVE BEEN ABLE TO GIVE
THEM MORE COMFORTABLE.
>> Reporter: WITH MORE MONEY, HE
SAID HE'D PROVIDE BETTER FOOD
AND MORE COMFORTABLE LIVING
CONDITIONS.
DORMITORIES ARE SO CROWDED SOME
YOUNGER CHILDREN MUST SHARE
BUNKS.
THE ACADEMIC CHALLENGE IS EVEN
GREATER.
THE SCHOOL HAS TO TEACH STUDENTS
FROM 60 TRIBES, WITH DISTINCT
LANGUAGES AND CUSTOMS.
>> OUR MAJOR CONCERN WAS HOW TO
BRING ALL THESE UNDER ONE ROOF
AND MOLD THEM INTO A CURRICULUM
WITHOUT SACRIFICING THEIR OWN
HERITAGE AND TRAITS.
SO OVER THE YEARS, WE HAVE TRIED
TO STRIKE A BALANCE.
>> Reporter: STUDENTS SPEND TIME
IN CRAFT WORK AND PROGRAMS TO
HELP PRESERVE AND RETAIN
INDIGENOUS TRADITIONS AND
LANGUAGES.
CLASSES ARE TAUGHT IN THE
OFFICIAL REGIONAL LANGUAGE,
ORIYA, UNTIL HIGH SCHOOL, WHEN
STUDENTS SWITCH TO ENGLISH.
WE CAUGHT SOME OF THEM
PRACTICING ONE EVENING.
>> YOU SEE, STUDENTS ARE
STUDYING.
>> Reporter: THEY MARVELED AT
WHAT FOR THEM CERTAINLY WERE
UNCROWDED CLASSROOMS AND OTHER
IMAGES OF EVERYDAY LIFE IN
AMERICA.
BOTH PICTURES AND THIS
CONFERENCE ROOM WERE DONATED BY
THE U.S. EMBASSY, ONE OF SEVERAL
FOREIGN MISSIONS THAT HAVE
OFFERED SOME SUPPORT TO THE
SCHOOL.
>> YOU CAN SEE THE FLAG OF
U.S.A. HERE.
YOU SEE THEY REALLY LOVE THEIR
COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: AND ON A SCALE NOT
SEEN IN INDIA, THIS SCHOOL
PLACES HUGE EMPHASIS ON SPORTS,
TO BUILD DISCIPLINE AND
CAMARADERIE.
STUDENTS HAVE ALL SORTS OF
OPTIONS: THE INDIAN SPORT OF
KABADDI, BASKETBALL, AND EVEN
AMERICAN BASEBALL.
BUT THE HANDS-DOWN POPULAR SPORT
IS RUGBY.
THE GAME HAS TAKEN MANY STUDENTS
FAR FROM THEIR RURAL HOMES.
IT BEGAN WITH A CHANCE VISIT
FROM MEMBERS OF A BOMBAY RUGBY
TEAM A FEW YEARS AGO.
IT CAUGHT ON QUICKLY.
>> THIS IS 2011, LONDON.
THIS IS 2007, LONDON.
>> Reporter: KALINGA TEAMS HAVE
PARTICIPATED IN TOURNAMENTS IN
AUSTRALIA AND ENGLAND, SPONSORED
BY PROFESsIONAL RUGBY
ORGANIZATIONS.
ALMOST AS HEADY AS WINNING THE
CHANCE TO TRAVELA SOUTH AFRICAN
ABROAD, TO TOUR LONDON, SAYS
SENIOR HAJI MAJHI.
>> WE TRAINED IN CALCUTTA FOR
THE TOURNAMENT.
PRIOR TO LEAVING, WE WERE GIVEN
ENGLISH LESSONS, SHOWN HOW TO
USE THE TOILETS.
THEY TAUGHT US TABLE MANNERS.
>> Reporter: HIS TEAMMATE,
RAJKISHORE MURMU, SAYS THEIR
SUCCESS ON THE PITCH REINFORCED
A MESSAGE THE SOOL CHTRIES TO
CONVEY.
>> WE'VE LEARNED IN THIS SCHOOL
TO NEVER THINK OF OURSELVES AS
INFERIOR TO ANYBODY ELSE, AND I
THINK OTHERS RESPECT US, TOO.
>> RUGBY HAS TAUGHT ME A LOT OF
THINGS, MOST IMPORTANTLY
DISCIPLINE, WHICH IS CRITICAL
WHEN YOU'RE LEARNING THE
INTRICACIES OF THE GAME.
FOR EXAMPLE, I KNOW NOW IF I
SUDDENLY ENCOUNTER A TIGER, I'LL
KNOW HOW TO DODGE IT.
>> Reporter: FOR PARENTS HAVING
CHILDREN IN SCHOOL MEANS FEWER
HANDS TO HELP OUT WITH THE DAILY
STRUGGLE FOR SURVIVAL.
BUT HADI'S FATHER, MONGOLA
DHANGDA MAJHI, SAYS HE'S HAPPY
TO HAVE SECURED HIS SON'S
FUTURE.
>> HE'S ALREADY GOT MORE THAN I
GOT IN MY ENTIRE LIFETIME.
THERE'S NO GOING BACK.
THERE IS NOTHING IN THE OUR
VILLAGE.
MAYBE IN THE FUTURE MY SON WILL
BE ABLE TO HELP BRING BETTER
FACILITIES TO OUR AREA-- A
HOSPITAL OR MEDICAL CLINIC OR
SOME KIND OF SCHOOL.
>> Reporter: HADI AND MAJHI,
LIKE OTHER KALINGA GRADUATES,
CAN TAKE ADVANTAGE OF SEATS
RESERVED FOR THEM AT COLLEGES
FOUNDED BY SAMANTA, WHO SAYS
MOST OF THESE STUDENTS OPT TO
REMAIN CLOSE TO HOME, WHERE
THEY'RE MOST URGENTLY NEEDED.
>> I DON'T WANT THESE CHILDREN,
ONCE EDUCATED, TO REMAIN
PRIMARILY IN URBAN AREAS.
RATHER, WE WOULD LIKE THEM TO BE
AGENTS OF CHANGE IN THEIR OWN
COMMUNITIES.
>> Reporter: TO DO THAT, HE
PLANS TO OPEN 20 BRANCHES OF THE
KALINGA INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL
SCIENCES IN RURAL COMMUNITIES
ACROSS THE REGION.
>>Ifill: THERE IS A SLIDE SHOW
OF IMAGES FROM THE COLINGA SHOW.
YOU CAN FIND A LINK TO THE
PULITZER
CENTER'S WEB SITE ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
FRED'S REPORTING IS A
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDER-TOLD
STORIES PROJECT AT SAINT MARY'S
UNIVERSITY IN MINNESOTA.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT, WHAT
WE TALK ABOUT AND DON'T TALK
ABOUT WHEN IT COMES TO RACE AND
IDENTITY.
IT'S A SUBJECT AGAIN AT THE FORE
AFTER THE DEATH OF TRAYVON
MARTIN AND THE TRIAL OF GEORGE
ZIMMERMAN, AND IT'S THE SUBJECT
OF THE RACE CARD PROJECT, AN
EFFORT BY NPR JOURNALIST AND
AUTHOR MICHELE NORRIS TO ENGAGE
PEOPLE IN A CONVERSATION ABOUT,
AS HER WEB SITE SAYS, THEIR
"EXPERIENCES, QUESTIONS, HOPES,
DREAMS, LAMENTS OR OBSERVATIONS
ABOUT RACE AND IDENTITY."
MICHELE NORRIS JOINS US NOW.
.
>> GOOD TO YOU WITH YOU.
Brown: FIRST EXPLAIN TO US
WHAT THE RACE CARD MEANS.
WHAT YOU'RE AFTER.
>> THEY ARE VERY SHORT STORIES,
SIX-WORD STORIES.
>> THAT IS SHORT.
E ID WAS TO OPEN UP ON A
DIFFICULT SUBJECT BIT NOT ASKING
VERY MUCH OF THEM.
I ASKED PEOPLE TO SHARE AS YOU
SAID THEIR THOUGHTS OBSERVATIONS
LAMENTS WHATEVER IN ONE SENTENCE
THAT ONLY HAS SIX WORDS.
THE IDEA IS TO CREATE A PLATFORM
A PLACE WHERE PEOPLE COULD
PERHAPS SAY DIFFICULT THINGS BUT
MORE IMPORTANTLY WHERE THEY
COULD GO TO THE WEB SITE OR USE
THE EXERCISE TO LISTEN TO OTHER
PEOPLE TO FIND OUT WHAT OTHER
PEOPLE ARE SAYING OR THINKING.
>>Brown: AND SOMETHING ABOUT
THAT COMPACTNESS WORKS, YOU
CAN'T GO ON AND ON?
>> IN THE BEGINNING PEOPLE WOULD
SEND IN SIX WORDS THEY WERE
ANONYMOUS.
THEN THEY WOULD END UP SENDING
SIX WORDS WITH THEIR LOCATION.
THEN THE SIX WORDS END UPPING A
SPIGOT.
THEY ARE ACCOMPANIED BY ESSAYS
AND A COMMENT.
>>Brown: GENERALLY SPEAKING WHAT
HAVE YOU SEEN HAPPENING SINCE
THE DEATH OF TRAYVON MARTIN IN
THROUGH TO TODAY?
>> WELL, IT'S BEEN A RUNNING
THREAD THROUGH RACE CARD
PROJECTS AND THERE ARE FLASH
POINTS.
EVEN BEFORE IT BECAME A NATIONAL
STORY THE SUBMISSIONS STARTED TO
TRICKLE IN.
WHEN IT BECAME A NATIONAL STORY,
BIG SPIKE IN SUBMISSIONS.
WHEN GEORGE ZIMMERMAN WAS
ARRESTED BIG SPIKE IN SMIKSES --
SUBMISSIONS AND THROUGHOUT THE
TRIAL BIG SPIKE IN SUBMISSIONS.
YOU SEE ALL SORTS OF THINGS.
YOU SEE MOTHERS WHO WATCHED THIS
TRIAL AND FELT FOR THEIR OWN
CHILDREN.
THEY SOMEHOW FELT THAT TRAYVON
MARTIN'S EXPERIENCE TOUCHED
THEIR HOME AND THEY FEARED FOR
THEIR CHILDREN.
YOU SAW PEOPLE WHO WOULD WATCH
THE TRIAL AND MAYBE THEY DIDN'T
CONDONE WHAT GEORGE ZIMMERMAN
DID BUT THEY SEE HIS IMPULSES.
WHEN THEY SEE PEOPLE OF COLOR IN
THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD IF THEY FEEL
THEY DON'T BELONG THAT THEY TALK
OPENLY AND HONESTLY ABOUT THE
FEAR THAT THEY FEEL.
AND A LOT OF PEOPLE TALK ABOUT
THE THINGS THAT THEY WRESTLE
WITH.
THAT THEY'RE UNCOMFORTABLE WITH,
THE IDEA THAT PEOPLE FEAR THEM,
THE IDEA THAT THEY MAKE
ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT OTHER PEOPLE
BASED ON THEIR SKIN COLOR OR
WHAT THEY HAPPEN TO BE WEARING.
>>Brown: IT WAS INTERESTING
BECAUSE AT THE TRIAL ITSELF
THERE WAS A LOT OF EMPHASIS ON
NOT SEEING THIS THROUGH THE LENS
OF RACE.
BUT CLEARLY MANY PEOPLE DO IN
AMERICA.
AND THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE SEEING ON
YOUR SITE.
>> THAT WAS INTERESTING BECAUSE
THE LAWYERS PARTICULARLY THE
PROSECUTOR TRIED OSAY THAT THIS
IS NOT ABOUT RACE.
ACTUALLY SAID THAT IN THE
COURTROOM AND THEN WE HAVE HEARD
FROM ONE OF THE JURORS WHO SAID
THIS IS NOT ABOUT RACE.
AND AS I LOOK AT THE THOUSANDS
OF SUBMISSIONS THAT HAVE POURED
IN CLEARLY PEOPLE WHO ARE
WATCHING THIS IN THEIR OWN HOMES
AND COMMUNITIES WERE SEEING
RACIAL ELEMENTS IN THIS.
AND SO THERE IS THIS THING THAT
SOMETIMES PEOPLE THINK THAT JUST
BECAUSE YOU DON'T TALK OVERTLY
ABOUT RACE THAT IT'S NOT THERE.
BUT NONETHELESS IT DOES APPEAR
TO BE YOU KNOW IN THE
ATMOSPHERE.
>>Brown: SO GIVE US A FEW
EXAMPLES OF THE KIND OF THING
YOU'VE BEEN HEARING.
>> URBAN LIVING HAS MADE ME
RACIST.
>>Brown: URBAN LIVING HAS MADE
ME RACIST.
>> THIS IS FROM SOMEONE WHO
MOVED TO THE CITY AND SHE LIVES
IN A MULTIETHNIC COMMUNITY AND
SHE SAID SOME OF THE ATTITUDES
SHE'S DEVELOPED OVER TIMES
LIVING IN THAT COMMUNITY HAS
HARDENED BASED ON WHAT SHE SEES
AND THAT MAKES HER
UNCOMFORTABLE.
SHE IS BUYING INTO THE TROPE OF
THE SCARY BLACK PERSON AND SHE
TALKED REALLY HONESTLY ABOUT
THAT NOT JUST IN THOSE SIX WORDS
BUT IN AN ESSAY THAT CAME ALONG
WITH THAT.
STOP SEEING MY SON AS A
PREDATOR.
I PRAY FOR MY SON EVERY DAY CAME
FROM A WOMAN IN CANTON, OHIO,
SHE HAS THREE CHILDREN TWO
DAUGHTERS AN A SON.
SHE WORRIES MOST ABOUT HER SON.
WHEN HE COMES HOME TO VISIT,
HE'S AN ADULT NOW, HE COMES HOME
TO PSYCHIATRIST IN THEIR
MULTIETHNIC NEIGHBORHOOD, HE
GOES OUT TO RUN, SHE SAYS GO RUN
SOMEPLACE EL ELSE.
SHE'S AFRAID IF HE RUNS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WEARING ATHLETIC
NEIGHBORHOOD, PEOPLE WILL SEE
TRAYVON MARTIN.
>>Brown: I WAS INTERESTED ABOUT
THE FEAR, PEOPLE BEING ALMOST
UPSET BY THEIR FEAR, IT ALL
COMES OUT IN VARIOUS WAYS.
>> UPSET BY THE FEAR THAT -- I
WAS READING FROM A MESSAGE FROM
IAN SEER, A PART OF THE BENNETON
GENERATION, THE GENERATION THAT
IS SUPPOSED TO BE POST-RACIAL,
WITHOUT THE BURDENS THAT OTHER
GENERATIONS HAVE AND HE TALKED
ABOUT HE HATES THE IMPLICIT FEAR
THAT HE HAS, PEOPLE WRESTLING
WITH IT.
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND, BLAC
FOLKS, BLACK MEN IN PARTICULAR,
WRITING ABOUT WHAT IT FEELS TO
STEP ONTO AN ELEVATOR AND HAVE
TO SAY HELLO REALLY LOUDLY TO
EVERYONE SO THEY UNDERSTAND
THEY'RE NOT A THREAT.
>>Brown: YOU ALSO HAVE SOME
PEOPLE THINKING WE PUT TOO MUCH
EMPHASIS ON RACE.
>> A LOT ABOUT THAT.
ONE PERSON SAYING STOP
EXPLOITING TO PROMOTE OWN
AGENDA.
AND THE IDEA THERE IS, THIS IS
FROM SOMEONE WHO SAID WE TALK
TOO MUCH ABOUT RACE, THE TRAYVON
MARTIN CASE THE GEORGE ZIMMERMAN
CASE WAS JUST ANOTHER EXAMPLE
FOR THE LIBERAL MEDIA THAT WAS
THE WORD HE USED TO DRIVE UP
RATING.
>>Brown: LET ME ASK YOU BRIEFLY
IN OUR LAST 30 SECONDS OR SO
HERE COMING BACK TO THE PROJECT
ITSELF HAVE YOU SEEN A -- WHAT
IS YOUR SENSE OF THE COMFORT
LEVEL OF PEOPLE TALKING ABOUT
THESE THINGS?
>> PEOPLE ARE COMFORTABLE
TALKING IN SIX WORDS.
BUT THIS IS WHAT I TAKE HEART
FROM, A LARGE PART OF THE
SUBMISSIONS COME IN THE FORM OF
A QUESTION.
PEOPLE ARE ASKING A QUESTION,
THAT SPEAKS SOMETHING ABOUT THE
NEED FOR DIALOGUE.
>>Brown: THE PROJECT IS THE RACE
CARD.
MICHELE NORRIS, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Ifill; AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE REPUTED LEADER OF MEXICO'S
ZETAS DRUG GANG WAS BEHIND BARS,
A DAY AFTER HIS CAPTURE JUST
SOUTH OF THE TEXAS BORDER.
THERE WERE NEW PROTESTS AGAINST
THE ACQUITTAL OF GEORGE
ZIMMERMAN IN THE KILLING OF
TRAYVON MARTIN.
AND ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
CALLED FOR RECONSIDERING "STAND
YOUR GROUND" LAWS.
AND SENATE LEADERS AGREED ON
ALLOWING VOTES FOR LONG-DELAYED
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEES, AND
AVERTING A SHOWDOWN OVER THE
CHAMBER'S RULES.
>> Brown: ONLINE, THE STORY OF A
RATHER DAUNTING KIND OF SUMMER
RUN: 48 HOURS, 135 MILES, AND
NEARLY 100 CONTESTANTS DARING
ENOUGH TO COMPETE IN THE HEAT OF
DEATH VALLEY.
KWAME HOLMAN TELLS US MORE.
>> Holman: FIND OUT MORE ABOUT
THE ULTRA-MARATHON THAT UNFOLDS
IN SOME OF THE WORLD'S MOST
EXTREME CONDITIONS: HOW THE
ATHLETES TRAIN, HOW THEY ENDURE,
AND THE ROLE OF SUPPORT CREWS IN
GETTING THEM TO THE FINISH LINE.
THAT'S ON THE RUNDOWN.
PLUS, HOW CAN YOU PROVE YOUR
CAPABILITIES TO AN EMPLOYER IF
SOME OF YOUR TECHNICAL SKILLS
ARE OUT OF DATE?
NICK CORCODILOS OFFERS WAYS TO
STEER THE CONVERSATION TO YOUR
ADVANTAGE ON "MAKING SENSE."
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
GWEN?
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL TALK WITH
DANIEL ELLSBERG, THE MAN WHO
RELEASED THE TOP-SECRET PENTAGON
PAPERS DURING THE VIETNAM WAR,
AND FORMER ATTORNEY GENERAL
MICHAEL MUKASEY ABOUT EDWARD
SNOWDEN, THE AMERICAN CONTRACTOR
WHO LEAKED U.S. SECRETS.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.